[#TF-43093] Documentation for IP allowlists phase 1 & 2 (#1869)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/ip-allowlists.mdx

---
page_title: IP Allowlists - HCP Terraform
description: >-
  Learn how to use IP allowlists to restrict access to HCP Terraform resources based on source IP addresses. Configure organization-wide, agent pool, or workspace-specific IP restrictions.
---

# IP Allowlists

IP allowlists (or CIDR range lists) let you restrict access to HCP Terraform resources based on source IP addresses. Use IP allowlists to enhance security by ensuring that only requests from approved IP addresses can access your infrastructure.

## Overview

IP allowlists define sets of IP address ranges (in CIDR notation) that are permitted to access specific HCP Terraform resources. When you configure an IP allowlist, HCP Terraform checks the source IP address of incoming requests and only allows access if the IP address matches one of the ranges in the allowlist.

## Enforcement scopes

> IP allowlists support three enforcement scopes that determine where the allowlist applies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IP allowlists support the following enforcement scopes that determine where the allowlist applies.
```

### Organization scope

An organization-scoped IP allowlist applies to all workspaces in your organization. This provides centralized control over IP-based access restrictions.

**Key characteristics:**
- Only one organization-scoped IP allowlist is allowed per organization
- Applies to all resources, except agent pools, within the organization
- Provides the broadest level of IP restriction

**When to use:** Use organization scope when you want to enforce a single set of IP restrictions across your entire HCP Terraform organization. However, a organization scope does not apply to agent pool resources, an agent pool scoped allowlist must be used in addition.

### All agent pools scope

> An all-agent-pools-scoped IP allowlist applies to all agent pools in your organization. This is the default scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### All agent pools scope

You can scope an IP allowlist to all agent pools in your organization. This is the default scope.
```

> **Key characteristics:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This scope has the following key characteristics:
```

- Multiple all-agent-pools-scoped IP allowlists can exist
- Applies to all agent pools in the organization

### Selected agent pools scope

> A selected-agent-pools-scoped IP allowlist applies only to specifically assigned agent pools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Specific agent pools scope

You can scope IP allowlists to specific agent pools.
```

- Provides granular control over which agent pools have IP restrictions

## Managing IP allowlists

### Creating an IP allowlist

To create an IP allowlist:
1. Go to your organization's settings, within the **Security** section, click **IP allowlists**. Then click **Create IP allowlist**.
2. Enter an allowlist **Name**, and **Description** (optional).
3. Then click **Add IP addresses**. IP addresses must be in CIDR notation, and an optional description can be added. There is also a enabled/disabled state for an IP address, by default it is enabled.
4. Select a **Scope** for the allowlist. By default, it will be **Apply to all agent pools**.
5. Click **Create IP allowlist**.

### Assigning agent pools

For IP allowlists with `selected_agent_pools` scope, you can explicitly assign agent pools to the allowlist. Only requests to the assigned agent pools will be subject to the IP restrictions.

To assign agent pools:
1. Create an IP allowlist with **Apply to selected agent pools** scope
2. Once this scope is selected, agent pools can be searched for and attached to the **Enforce on** section
3. Verify that the agent pools are correctly associated, then **Save IP allowlist**

> ### Updating IP allowlists

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Update IP allowlists
```

You can update an IP allowlist's name, description, and enforcement scope. When you change the enforcement scope to `organization` or `all_agent_pools`, HCP Terraform automatically removes any existing agent pool assignments.

### Deleting IP allowlists

Deleting an IP allowlist removes all IP restrictions associated with it. Before deleting an IP allowlist, ensure that removing the restrictions won't inadvertently grant access to unauthorized IP addresses.

To delete an IP allowlist:
1. Go to your organization's settings, within the **Security** section, click **IP allowlists**. Then click the name of the IP allowlist that you want to delete.
2. Click **Delete IP allowlist**.
3. Confirm deletion in the confirmation modal.

## CIDR ranges

CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing) ranges define blocks of IP addresses using a base IP address and a prefix length.

### Managing CIDR ranges

Each IP address in an IP allowlist, in addition to a CIDR range, can have a description, and can either be:
- **Enabled**: The range is actively enforced
- **Disabled**: The range is temporarily inactive but not deleted

> This allows you to quickly enable or disable specific IP ranges without removing them from the allowlist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Manage CIDR ranges

CIDR (classless inter-domain routing) ranges define blocks of IP addresses using a base IP address and a prefix length. 

You can add a description to each IP address or CIDR range in an IP allowlist. You can also enable or disable and address. When enabled, the range is actively enforced. When disabled, the range is temporarily inactive but not deleted.

This allows you to quickly enable or disable specific IP ranges without removing them from the allowlist.
```
I'm actually a little confused by this section. We say at the beginning that each entry must be in CIDR notation, but here we seem to be suggesting that you can use an IP address or a CIDR range? Am I confusing CIDR block and CIDR range?

    - **Entire organization**: This allowlist applies to an entire organization, excluding agent pools.
    - **Apply to all agent pools**: The allowlist applies to all agent pools in the organization. This is the default.
    - **Apply to specific agent pools**: This allowlist applies to specific agent pools.

    Refer to [Enforcement scopes](#enforcement-scopes) for more information.

## Assign agent pools

For IP allowlists with **Apply to selected agent pools** scope, you can explicitly assign agent pools to the allowlist. Only requests to the assigned agent pools are subject to the IP restrictions.

To assign agent pools:
1. Create an IP allowlist with **Apply to selected agent pools** scope
2. Once this scope is selected, agent pools can be searched for and attached to the **Enforce on** section
3. Verify that the agent pools are correctly associated, then **Save IP allowlist**

## Manage CIDR ranges

CIDR (classless inter-domain routing) ranges define blocks of IP addresses using a base IP address and a prefix length.

You can add a description to each IP address or CIDR range in an IP allowlist. You can also enable or disable and address.

> When enabled, the range is actively enforced. When disabled, the range is temporarily inactive but not deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open your organization's settings, then click **IP allowlists** in the **Security** section. 
1. Click on an allowlist. You can use the search bar to find a specific list. 
1. Click **Edit**. You can perform the following actions:
   - Rename the allowlist
   - Update the description
   - Open the ellipses menu for each address and either enable, disable, or delete the address. When enabled, the range is actively enforced. When disabled, the range is temporarily inactive but not deleted.
   - Click **Add IP address** to add more addresses.
1. Click **Save IP allowlist** to save your changes.   
```
The learning curve isn't that steep, but if you skimmed the content and landed on just this section, you wouldn't have any actionable instructions to follow.

## Enforcement scopes

IP allowlists support the following enforcement scopes that determine where the allowlist applies.

### Organization scope

An organization-scoped IP allowlist applies to all workspaces in your organization. This provides centralized control over IP-based access restrictions.

Organization-scoped IP allowlists have the following key characteristics:
- Only one organization-scoped IP allowlist is allowed per organization
- Applies to all resources, except agent pools, within the organization
- Provides the broadest level of IP restriction

Use organization-scoped allowlists when you want to enforce a single set of IP restrictions across your entire HCP Terraform organization. However, an organization scope does not apply to agent pool resources. You must also apply an allowlist scoped to the agent pool.

### All agent pools scope

You can scope an IP allowlist to all agent pools in your organization. This is the default scope.

This scope has the following key characteristics:
- You can create multiple IP allowlists scoped to all agent pools in the organization
- Applies to all agent pools in the organization

### Specific agent pools scope

> You can scope IP allowlists to specific agent pools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable the **Apply to specific agent pools** scope to apply IP allowlists to specific agent pools.
```
